.\" -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
.\"                      _        _
.\"                _ __ | | _____| |__
.\"               | '_ \| |/ / __| '_ \
.\"               | |_) |   <\__ \ | | |
.\"               | .__/|_|\_\___/_| |_|
.\"               |_|
.\" 
.\"              'pksh', the Packet Shell
.\" 
.\"              (C) Copyright 2003-2009
.\"     Rocco Carbone <rocco /at/ ntop /dot/ org>
.\" 
.\"  Released under the terms of GNU General Public License
.\"  at version 3;  see included COPYING file for details
.\" 
.\" -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
.\"
.TH PKSH 1 "14 Jun 2009"
.SH NAME
pksh \- An extension of the tcsh with an embedded pcap-based network packet analyzer for network monitoring
.SH VERSION
This manual documents pksh 0.2.2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pksh
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIpksh\fR is an enhanced but completely compatible version of the \fItcsh\fR
shell, with built-ins extensions to include network monitoring facilities.
.SH REFERENCE
The next sections of this manual describe all of the available
\fBBuilt-ins commands\fR, and \fBSpecial shell variables\fR, with the major enhancements of \fIpksh\fR over \fBtcsh\fR.
.SS "Built-ins commands"
.TP 8
.B bytes\fI
Show detailed information about traffic (in terms of bytes) on network interface(s).
.TP 8
.B packets
Show detailed information about traffic (in terms of packets) on network interface(s).
.TP 8
.B pkarp
Query the ARP cache and display for hosts like the 'arp' command does.
.TP 8
.B pkclose
Close network interface(s).
.TP 8
.B pkdev
List network interface(s) attached to the system suitable for packet capturing.
.TP 8
.B pkdisable
Stop collecting and processing packets on network interface(s).
.TP 8
.B pkenable
Start collecting and processing packets on network interface(s).
.TP 8
.B pkfilter
Display/Apply a filter to the a network interface.
.TP 8
.B pkfinger
Tell the host cache and display information for given hosts like the 'finger' command does for users.
.TP 8
.B pkhelp
Help [command]. If command is specified, print out help on it, otherwise print out the list of extensions
.TP 8
.B pkhosts
Query the host cache and display a table of hosts viewed on network interface(s) sorted accordingly to a given criteria.
.TP 8
.B pklast
Query the host cache and display a table of hosts viewed on network interface(s) sorted accordingly to their age.
.TP 8
.B pkopen
Open network interface(s) to look at packets on the network.
.TP 8
.B pkstatus
Tell network interface(s) status information in terms of bytes/packets viewed.
.TP 8
.B pkswap
Switch to interface and keep history to implement an interface stack.
.TP 8
.B pkuptime
Tell how long the shell has been running and display network information foreach packet enabled interface(s)
.TP 8
.B pkwho
Query the host cache and display a table of hosts viewed on network interface(s) sorted accordingly to local network usage.
.TP 8
.B throughput
Show detailed information about traffic (in terms of throughput) on network interface(s)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
tcsh(1), tcpdump(1), ntop(1), pcap(3)
.SH AUTHORS
.PD 0
.TP 2
Rocco Carbone <rocco@ntop.org>
